docs(guidelines): add unit and integration testing guidelines (#119)
autowarefoundation/autoware-documentation: docs/contributing/testing-guidelines/integration-testing.md

```xml
<test_depend>autoware_testing</test_depend>
```

And in `CMakeLists.txt` add:

```cmake
if(BUILD_TESTING)
  find_package(ament_lint_auto REQUIRED)
  ament_lint_auto_find_test_dependencies()

  find_package(autoware_testing REQUIRED)
  add_smoke_test(${PROJECT_NAME} ${NODE_NAME})
endif()
```

Doing so adds smoke tests that ensure that a node can be:

1. Launched with a default parameter file.
2. Terminated with a standard `SIGTERM` signal.

For the full API documentation, refer to the [package design page](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware.universe/blob/main/common/autoware_testing/design/autoware_testing-design.md).

!!! note

    This API is not suitable for all smoke test cases. 
    It cannot be used when a specific file location (eg: for a map) is required to be passed to the node, or if some preparation needs to be conducted before node launch.
    In such cases use the manual solution from the [component test section below](#integration-test-with-a-single-node-component-test).

### Integration test with a single node: component test

The simplest scenario is a single node. In this case, the integration test is commonly referred to as a component test.

> To add a component test to an existing node, follow the example of the `lanelet2_map_provider` package that has an executable named `lanelet2_map_provider_exe`.

Reviewer: If this is a real package, which repository is it in? I searched the AWF org on GitHub and GitLab but couldn't find it. If the package is an existing one, then we should add a link to it.

Author: The tests are actually quite different and I am not sure if the one in `fault_injection` is a good example for the documentation.

Author: I wrote a new test that I think can be used as a good example: https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware.universe/pull/1056

In `package.xml`, add:

```xml
<test_depend>ros_testing</test_depend>
```

In `CMakeLists.txt`, add or modify the `BUILD_TESTING` section:

```cmake
if(BUILD_TESTING)
  find_package(ament_lint_auto REQUIRED)
  ament_lint_auto_find_test_dependencies()

  add_ros_test(
    test/lanelet2_map_provider_launch.test.py
    TIMEOUT "30"
  )
endif()
```

!!! note

    The `TIMEOUT` argument is given in seconds; see the [add_ros_test.cmake file](https://github.com/ros2/ros_testing/blob/master/ros_testing/cmake/add_ros_test.cmake) for details.

To create a test, either read the [launch_testing quick-start example](https://github.com/ros2/launch/tree/master/launch_testing#quick-start-example), or follow the steps below.

> Taking `test/lanelet2_map_provider_launch.test.py` as an example, first dependencies are imported:

Reviewer: As above, if this is an actual file, then we should provide a link to it rather than make readers look for it.

```python
@pytest.mark.launch_test
def generate_test_description():

    map_osm_file = os.path.join(
        get_package_share_directory('lanelet2_map_provider'),
        'data/test_map.osm'
    )

    lanelet2_map_provider = Node(
        package='lanelet2_map_provider',
        executable='lanelet2_map_provider_exe',
        namespace='had_maps',
        parameters=[
            os.path.join(
                get_package_share_directory('lanelet2_map_provider'),
                'param/test.param.yaml'
            ),
            {
                'map_osm_file': map_osm_file
            }]
    )

    context = {'lanelet2_map_provider': lanelet2_map_provider}

    return LaunchDescription([
        lanelet2_map_provider,
        # Start tests right away - no need to wait for anything
        launch_testing.actions.ReadyToTest()]
    ), context
```

Finally the test condition. As before, it is just a smoke test that ensures the node can be

1. Launched with its default parameter file.
2. Terminated with a standard `SIGTERM` signal.

> So the test code is executed after the node executable has been shut down (`post_shutdown_test`):

Reviewer: The description of the test condition mentions that we are testing that the node can be launched with its default parameter file and then terminated with a `SIGTERM` signal. However, the code below (`test_exit_code`) seems to be only testing the termination part and not the launching part. 

Should that also have been included?

        # Start tests right away - no need to wait for anything
        launch_testing.actions.ReadyToTest()]
    ), context
```

Finally, a test is executed after the node executable has been shut down (`post_shutdown_test`).
Here we make sure the node terminated with a standard `SIGTERM` signal,
ensuring that it was launched without error and exited cleanly.

```python
@launch_testing.post_shutdown_test()
class TestProcessOutput(unittest.TestCase):

    def test_exit_code(self, proc_output, proc_info, ndt_mapper):
        # Check that process exits with code -15 code: termination request, sent to the program
        launch_testing.asserts.assertExitCodes(proc_info, [-15], process=ndt_mapper)
```

## Running the test

Continuing the example from above, first build your package:

```bash
colcon build --packages-up-to lanelet2_map_provider
source install/setup.bash
```

Then either execute the component test manually:

```bash
ros2 test src/mapping/had_map/lanelet2_map_provider/test/lanelet2_map_provider_launch.test.py
```

Or as part of testing the entire package:

```bash
colcon test --packages-select lanelet2_map_provider
```

Verify that the test is executed; e.g.

```bash

> colcon test-result --all --verbose

Reviewer 2: Same here.

Author: Done b36db791b409e5461fd32b608f9ae033eaa3c7a6

> # Integration Testing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Integration testing
```

> ## Introduction
> 
> The purpose of this guide is to motivate developers to adopt integration testing best practices with Autoware by explaining how to write, run,
> and evaluate the results of integration tests.

Reviewer 2: I think we can drop the section name here.
@LalithVipulananthan I remember you mentioned this kind of rule before. What do you think?

```suggestion
The purpose of this guide is to motivate developers to adopt integration testing best practices with Autoware by explaining how to write, run,
and evaluate the results of integration tests.
```

Author: I agree. Done in 4b5d4b9e24ecf560e0b33d4c328b3c42dca76859

- Issues that can occur while the system is under high CPU/memory load, such as `malloc` failures. This can be tested using tools like `stress` and `udpreplay` to test the performance of nodes with real data.```

With ROS 2, it is possible to program complex autonomous-driving applications with a large number
of nodes. Therefore, a lot of effort has been made to provide an integration-test framework that
helps developers test the interaction of ROS 2 nodes.

## Integration-test framework

A typical integration-test framework has three parts:

1. A series of executables with arguments that work together and generate outputs
2. A series of expected outputs that should match the output of the executables
3. A launcher that starts the tests, compares the outputs to the expected outputs, and determines if the test passes

In Autoware, we use the [launch_testing](https://github.com/ros2/launch/tree/master/launch_testing) framework.

### Smoke tests

Autoware has a dedicated API for smoke testing

To use this framework, in `package.xml` add:

> ```{xml}

Reviewer 2: Could you remove all `{}` from the language of code blocks?
It prevents highlighting in some environments.

``````suggestion
```xml
``````

Author: Done 08fdaba9012bcbf64c5117f139f993cb87da5854

# Integration Testing

## Introduction

> This article motivates developers to adopt integration testing by explaining how to write, run,

Reviewer: Perhaps better to describe this as the purpose of the guideline?

```suggestion
The purpose of this guide is to motivate developers to adopt integration testing best practices with Autoware by explaining how to write, run,
```

and evaluate the results of integration tests.

## Quick reference

> 1. [colcon](https://github.com/ros2/ros2/wiki/Colcon-Tutorial) is used to build and run test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [colcon](https://github.com/ros2/ros2/wiki/Colcon-Tutorial) is used to build and run tests.
```

2. [launch testing](https://github.com/ros2/launch/tree/master/launch_testing) launches nodes and runs tests.
3. [Testing in general](testing-in-general.md) describes the big picture of testing.

## Integration testing

An integration test is defined as the phase in software testing where individual software
modules are combined and tested as a group. Integration tests occur after unit tests, and before
validation tests.

The input to an integration test is a set of independent modules that have been unit tested. The set

> of modules are tested against the defined integration test plan, and the output is a set of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of modules is tested against the defined integration test plan, and the output is a set of
```

> properly integrated software modules that are ready for system testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
properly integrated software modules that is ready for system testing.
```

## Value of integration testing

Integration tests determine if independently developed software modules work correctly
when the modules are connected to each other. In ROS 2, the software modules are called
nodes. As a special case, testing a single node can be referred to as component testing.

Integration tests help to find the following types of errors:

> - Incompatible interaction between nodes, such as non-matching topics, different message types, or incompatible QoS settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Incompatible interactions between nodes, such as non-matching topics, different message types, or incompatible QoS settings
```

> - Reveal edge cases that were not touched with unit tests, such as a critical timing issue, network communication delay, disk I/O failure, and many other problems that can occur in production environments

Reviewer: The line preceeding the list talks about finding errors, which is the same as `revealing` so:

```suggestion
- Edge cases that were not touched by unit testing, such as a critical timing issue, network communication delays, disk I/O failures, and many other problems that can occur in production environments
```

> - Using tools like `stress` and `udpreplay`, performance of nodes is tested with real data or while the system is under high CPU/memory load, where situations such as `malloc` failures can be detected

Reviewer: Hmm. This one is a bit more tricky, so please let me know if reordering the sentence maintains the intended meaning.

```suggestion
- Issues that can occur while the system is under high CPU/memory load, such as `malloc` failures. This can be test using tools like `stress` and `udpreplay` to test the performance of nodes with real data.```

With ROS 2, it is possible to program complex autonomous-driving applications with a large number
of nodes. Therefore, a lot of effort has been made to provide an integration-test framework that

> helps developers test the interaction of ROS2 nodes.

Reviewer: Utterly minor, but `ROS 2` with a space between the two is used elsewhere.

```suggestion
helps developers test the interaction of ROS 2 nodes.
```

## Integration-test framework

A typical integration-test framework has three parts:

1. A series of executables with arguments that work together and generate outputs
2. A series of expected outputs that should match the output of the executables
3. A launcher that starts the tests, compares the outputs to the expected outputs, and determines if the test passes

> In Autoware.Core, we use the [launch_testing](https://github.com/ros2/launch/tree/master/launch_testing) framework.

Reviewer: Should this be `Autoware Core` or just `Autoware`?

Author: I think using `Autoware` everywhere is better for now.
```suggestion
In Autoware, we use the [launch_testing](https://github.com/ros2/launch/tree/master/launch_testing) framework.
```

### Smoke tests

> Autoware has dedicated API for smoke testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Autoware has a dedicated API for smoke testing
```

To use this framework, in `package.xml` add:

```{xml}
<test_depend>autoware_testing</test_depend>
```

and in `CMakeLists.txt` add:

```{cmake}
if(BUILD_TESTING)
  find_package(ament_lint_auto REQUIRED)
  ament_lint_auto_find_test_dependencies()

  find_package(autoware_testing REQUIRED)
  add_smoke_test(${PROJECT_NAME} ${NODE_NAME})
endif()
```

> which adds smoke test that ensures that node can be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doing so adds smoke tests that ensure that a node can be:
```

> 1. launched with default parameter file,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. launched with a default parameter file,
```

> 1. launched with default parameter file,
> 2. terminated with a standard `SIGTERM` signal,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Launched with a default parameter file
2. Terminated with a standard `SIGTERM` signal
```

> For full API documentation see [package design page](autoware-testing-package-design.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the full API documentation, refer to the [package design page](autoware-testing-package-design.md).
```

> This API is not suitable for all smoke test cases. For example, it can not be used when some specific file location,
> like map, is required to be passed to the node or some preparation need to be conducted before node launch. In such cases use manual solution from [section below](#integration-test-with-a-single-node-component-test).

Reviewer: Perhaps use mkdocs admonition block here?
```suggestion
!!! note

   This API is not suitable for all smoke test cases. For example, it cannot be used when a specific file location (eg: for a map) is required to be passed to the node, or if some preparation needs to be conducted before node launch. 
   In such cases use the manual solution from the [component test section below](#integration-test-with-a-single-node-component-test).
```

### Integration test with a single node: component test

The simplest scenario is a single node. In this case, the integration test is commonly referred to as a component test.

To add a component test to an existing node, follow the example of the `lanelet2_map_provider` package that has an executable named `lanelet2_map_provider_exe`.

In `package.xml`, add

```{xml}
<test_depend>ros_testing</test_depend>
```

In `CMakeLists.txt`, add or modify the `BUILD_TESTING` section:

```{cmake}
if(BUILD_TESTING)
  find_package(ament_lint_auto REQUIRED)
  ament_lint_auto_find_test_dependencies()

  add_ros_test(
    test/lanelet2_map_provider_launch.test.py
    TIMEOUT "30"
  )
endif()
```

The `TIMEOUT` argument is given in seconds; see [here](https://github.com/ros2/ros_testing/blob/master/ros_testing/cmake/add_ros_test.cmake) for details.

> To create test follow [launch_testing quick-start example](https://github.com/ros2/launch/tree/master/launch_testing#quick-start-example).
> 
> Let's look at `test/lanelet2_map_provider_launch.test.py` as an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a test, either read the [launch_testing quick-start example](https://github.com/ros2/launch/tree/master/launch_testing#quick-start-example), or follow the steps below. 

Let's look at `test/lanelet2_map_provider_launch.test.py` as an example.
```

The essential content is to first import dependencies:

```{python}
from ament_index_python import get_package_share_directory
from launch import LaunchDescription
from launch_ros.actions import Node
import launch_testing

import os
import pytest
import unittest
```

> Then a launch description was created to launch the node under test. Note that `test_map.osm` file path is found and passed to the node. This is one of limitation of [smoke test](#integration-testing-smoke-test):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then a launch description is created to launch the node under test. Note that the `test_map.osm` file path is found and passed to the node, something that cannot be done with the [smoke testing API](#integration-testing-smoke-test):
```

```{python}
@pytest.mark.launch_test
def generate_test_description():

    map_osm_file = os.path.join(
        get_package_share_directory('lanelet2_map_provider'),
        'data/test_map.osm'
    )

    lanelet2_map_provider = Node(
        package='lanelet2_map_provider',
        executable='lanelet2_map_provider_exe',
        namespace='had_maps',
        parameters=[
            os.path.join(
                get_package_share_directory('lanelet2_map_provider'),
                'param/test.param.yaml'
            ),
            {
                'map_osm_file': map_osm_file
            }]
    )

    context = {'lanelet2_map_provider': lanelet2_map_provider}

    return LaunchDescription([
        lanelet2_map_provider,
        # Start tests right away - no need to wait for anything
        launch_testing.actions.ReadyToTest()]
    ), context
```

> and finally the test condition. As before, it is just a smoke test ensures the node can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and finally the test condition. As before, it is just a smoke test that ensures the node can be
```
